All right so we're gonna go ahead in this video and installing configure Intel E.J. for the Linux platform.
So again a reminder that this is the Linux video.
Check out the other videos in this section.
If you're running Windows or a Mac computer.
All right so now that we've installed the JD K the Java development kit in the last video we now need
to install the intelligent idea product which is the I.T. integrated development environment they're
going to be using in this course to write our Java programs.
So we'll go and open a browser again and we need to go to git brain.
So dot com git brains is the company that have created this intel each idea product once you arrive
on the website hover over the Tools menu.
Come down here to intelligent ideas.
Click on Download.
I'm going to close down this little cookies pop up and you got two options here to download intelligent.
We've got the community edition and also got the ultimate edition the Community Edition is free and
open source.
And that's going to be the one that I recommend to use in the course.
But there's also this option if you're a professional programmer to use the Ultimate Edition and that's
actually commercial software and you will get a free trial but you'll need to buy this at some point
by default the Ultimate Edition gives you 30 days or 30 days to trial it.
And what I can do is pick it enter the last lecture in this course.
I can give you an extra 90 days courtesy of budget brains have generously given me some coupon codes
to pass on to students.
So if you do want to try the ultimate edition for 120 days by all means visit the last lecture in this
course.
But the Community Edition which is free and doesn't need any coupon is going to be the one that I recommend
you download and use.
I'm going to click on Download I'm going to say that you're going to go to my deadlines forward.
All right.
We have to say that's downloading.
So just keep that a moment to finish.
And by the way the ultimate edition has got lots of extra tools and capabilities.
And as I mentioned it's aimed at professional developers.
So there may be a reason down the line.
If you're just starting out with Java to buy it.
But certainly now you can start off as often here in download the free community edition.
All right.
I'm going to pause the video now.
We'll come back once the download has completed.
All right.
So as you can see now the download has completed.
So I'm going to close down this browser with analog and need that and what I'm going to do you can get
to the command line if you want to zip it that way.
I'm just going to go to the file manager and I'm going to go into the downloads folder and I'm just
going to right click the idea download the file that we downloaded click on extract here and that will
automatically extract the contents out.
You can see we've got a folder there now.
And what I'm going to do is move that into another folder.
You know you can actually move the files wherever you like.
But what I'm going to do is create a supporter of my home folder called software and putting teletype
in there as a sub folder.
But it's up to us to which or where he would like to place it.
So to do that I'm just going to right click that click on move to and I'm gonna go to my home folder
parallels in this case and I'm going to create a new folder first we'll call it software
create.
I'm going to put the folder in there.
I click on select and I forgot to have a look.
Now back to home I have a look in software.
We can see we've got an intelligent subform today.
Now again you can do this from the command line.
I'm going to right click and I click on open in terminal that folder I'm going to close down the file
manager we're not even there anymore
really go into the folder they're going to be in the bin folder or into the idea folder first and then
we go into the bin folder and what we're going to do is run the idea DSH depending on who installation
of Unix you may have to set the execute attributes for Aidid or his height.
But in my case it's ready to go.
So I can just type full stop period forward slash idea.
Guess how much I'm going to stop space Ampersand so that it doesn't type the command window and that
should start intelligent now and I'm just going to minimize the window for now.
Now you'll get this option when you first install intelligent or anytime install a new version.
It's asking.
Have we got a custom location where we can import some configuration options from Intelligence.
From a previous installation in this case it's a brand new install and you can see tuner import settings
is automatically selected.
So I'm just going to go with that and click on okay with this privacy policy that may or may not pop
up have agreed to that described to the end and click on accept this is the data sharing option.
If you're happy to send anonymous statistics or data about the features and plugins used etc then you
can click on send usage statistics.
I'm going to select don't send
next we've got the theme that we'd like to use for intelligence.
You can tackle it.
Oculus selected by default which you can say is a dark background.
I'm gonna select intelligence with the white background but that's a personal preference noting you've
also got GTA plus as an option here and you can also go into settings at a later time and overall change
those settings.
Anyway I'm going to click on Next to desktop entry and we do want a desktop entry.
You'd normally want that.
Let's say you have to try and start Intel Jay from the command line like you saw me do so I'm gonna
leave that to our option there they're checked to create a desktop entry and obviously you click and
check for all users.
If you actually want to ever use it to be able to start Intel A.J..
I'm going to leave that off for now.
Click on launch script.
This gives you an option to run intelligence from the command line.
If you spent a lot of time in the command line it's very useful to be able to do this type.
I had ideas space and then a phone name and have an open up so I'm going to select out to check that
checkbox.
You can accept the default location for where the script would be created.
I'm going to leave it on us are local bin.
Click on next to default plugins by default is a series of plugins that intelligence customize for you.
We're not going to be using these specifically in the course and we don't need to make any changes because
they are actually installed anyways.
You can say I'm going to leave it as he is and click on Next to featured plugins.
Here we've got the option to download three featured plugins or three of these we won't be using.
You could install already a features trainer if you wanted to but I'm going to leave them all and installed
and click on start using intel.
Jay idea.
We need to enter our authentication details because I selected the option to create a script so we could
run it from the command line from the top in my password.
Scientology has no pain or death started to close it down just to confirm now I can open this up again.
Up here here 5 top intelligence.
Just a couple of letters of intelligence we've got our desktop entry.
I can click on that to actually started in somewhere like Mount all right so this is intelligent idea
installed.
We've got a few configuration things so steps that we need to take still.
Firstly we need to associate the Java development kit.
So we need to connect intelligently to the Java development kit that we installed in the previous video
so that it can communicate and actually execute or compile and execute our Java programs.
To do that we can click on configure a select project defaults and then select project structure.
This gives us this option here and depending on your installation of linux that may or may not find
the installation.
You can say in this case in fact it's found the installation.
And if you come down here and click honesty case you can see that it's found the JD K. Levin in the
Unsullied JVM folder.
But just in case it isn't found on your system I'm going to delete that and I I'll show you the process
you would normally follow to install it manually.
Came back to project you have an option and there's now no other options.
You'll click on new Select JFK and you'd navigate to the are lib JVM and then whatever the field supporter
name is in this case Tracy K. Levin noted that until it I found that for us click on Okay noting that
that's now slightly different it does say Java Version 11 instead of just 11 and then the other thing
to do he is under Project language level that should be selected at the same level as the JD K. that
we've installed at Java Version 11th.
We need to come down here and make sure this is set to Version 11 as well.
And what we're doing there is making sure that the features of the latest version of Java 11 in this
case are going to work in intelligence because we've told it to support those first or that language
level if you will which is the latest version of Java.
You give us a little pop up which will probably disappear in the future.
It's come up because the j k l ever is so new except in any case and you click on okay and we've now
configured the Java development kit.
Now there's a few last minute things that we need to configure which are once off settings which makes
life a little bit easier when using intelligence.
So let's do that before we end the video.
So to do the configure we're going to click on configure I'm going to click on settings and come down
here and click on the little triangle to the left of Ed and cricket again to the left of general and
the first option we want to click is auto import we want to check both of these boxes add unambiguous
imports on the fly and optimize imports on the fly for current projects and we'll talk more in later
videos as to what these are doing.
But basically just making life a little bit easier when you're typing in code.
The next option down here we want to select his appearance you want to make sure show line numbers is
checked and you can see that that that is checked and that again makes life a little bit easier and
you'll see that in action in future videos.
And the final option ones select in here is under Code folding click on that they want to select or
uncheck imports if it's checked unchecked for imports unchecked for one line methods unchecked for closures
and finally unchecked a generic constructor and method parameters.
So what we're doing here is we're d selecting code forwarding which is basically saying that we want
to see all the code.
We don't want intelligent idea to hide any of the code.
When you start getting more experience with Java you'll often want to hide parts of the code that you're
very familiar with.
And that's what this does by default but we're turning those options off so that early on we get to
see all the code.
We don't have to click extra buttons to look at that hidden code.
Going to click on.
Okay at this point and then saves those settings and I should be good to go.
And at this point we're actually completed.
So we've now configured intelligent idea.
We've connected it to the Java development kit and we've also had made a few changes to settings to
make our experience with Java a little bit easier.
When we first starting up we are now ready to move on to the next video.
Now when that next video the one immediately after this one we're going to start looking at our first
program our first steps.
We're gonna create our first Java program.
So I'll see you in that next video.